Powerledger Validator Node Terms and Conditions 

Effective 30 May 2022

These terms apply to your use of Powerledger’s Node Software, interaction with the Powerledger Blockchain and performance of Validator Services.  By downloading, installing and using the Powerledger Node Software and/or connecting to the Powerledger Blockchain you agree to the terms and conditions set out in this document (Agreement).  
In this Agreement, Powerledger means Power Ledger Pty Ltd (ACN 612 531 218) of Level 2 ‘The Palace’, 108 St Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, and ‘you’ or ‘your’ means the person or entity that uses the Powerledger Node Software and operates a Node. 

1	Validator Services 
1.1	You agree to use reasonable endeavours to provide the Validator Services in accordance with this Agreement and any Documentation. 
1.2	You are solely responsible for establishing, providing or procuring, maintaining and supporting any operating environment, other software and hardware, facilities, equipment and telecommunications and internet connections necessary to operate your Node and providing the Validator Services (Operating Environment).  You must ensure that the Operating Environment has the necessary specifications, features and third party software required to ensure compatibility with the Powerledger Node Software.
1.3	You must ensure that you comply, at all times, with all applicable Laws in providing the Validator Services and using the Powerledger Node Software, including obtaining any relevant approvals, licences or consents required by applicable Law.  
1.4	You must maintain best industry practices in respect of physical and cyber security for your Node and your private keys utilised in providing the Validator Services and/or any Staking.
1.5	From time to time Powerledger may release, and require you to update your Node to, the new versions of the Powerledger Node Software. You must implement the latest version of the Powerledger Node Software as notified by Powerledger as soon as practicable following completion of the epoch in which the version was made available.
1.6	You must inform Powerledger of the commission you apply to your Node prior to connecting your Node to the Powerledger Blockchain.  You must not change the Commission for 3 months from the connection date.  After this initial 3 months period, you must provide Powerledger with at least 2 weeks notice (by email to validator@powerledger.io) before increasing the commission.

2	Powerledger Node Software use and conditions  
2.1	Powerledger grants to you a revocable, personal, non-transferable, non-sublicensable and non-exclusive license to use, in accordance with this Agreement, one instance of the Powerledger Node Software for the purposes of providing the Validator Services (Approved Purpose).
2.2	You must, and must ensure your Personnel, use the Powerledger Node Software solely for the Approved Purpose and in accordance with this Agreement and the Documentation. 
2.3	You must not, without Powerledger's prior written approval, sub-license, rent, sell, lease, copy, distribute, provide access to or otherwise transform the Powerledger Node Software or the Documentation.
2.4	You must not, and must ensure that your Personnel do not: 
(a)	use the Powerledger Node Software, Staking Portal, Powerledger Blockchain or Documentation for any other purpose other than the Approved Purpose; 
(b)	open the RPC Node connected to the Powerledger Blockchain; 
(c)	share with anyone the Powerledger Node Software or Documentation or any information available on the Powerledger Blockchain, including (but not limited to) information relating to transactions, user identities, other Nodes, transaction volume, cluster status and Powerledger Blockchain metrics;
(d)	modify or adapt the Powerledger Node Software, Staking Portal or the Documentation or merge all or any part of the Powerledger Node Software or the Documentation with other programs;
(e)	introduce any malware, trojans, viruses, corruption or other malicious code to, or otherwise interfere with the operation of, the Powerledger Node Software, Staking Portal, POWR Bridge or the Powerledger Blockchain;
(f)	reverse disassemble, decompile or reverse engineer, or directly or indirectly allow or cause a third party to disassemble, decompile or reverse engineer the whole or any part of the Powerledger Node Software, Staking Portal, and its source code or otherwise attempt or allow any other party to attempt to obtain the algorithms by which the Powerledger Node Software or the Staking Portal performs its functions;
(g)	extract or attempt to extract any data from Powerledger Blockchain, other than in the normal operation of the Powerledger Node Software;
(h)	alter or remove any mark of ownership, copyright, patent, trade mark or other property right which is embodied in the Powerledger Node Software and the Documentation or on the physical material provided by Powerledger; 
(i)	use the Powerledger Node Software in breach of any Laws or in any fraudulent activity; or
(j)	take any action to compromise the integrity or security of the Powerledger Blockchain or the POWR Bridge.

3	Staking
3.1	If you Stake any POWR Tokens to your Node or permit or enable other persons to Stake POWR Tokens, your participation in Staking, including accrual of any Rewards and conversion of any Rewards to POWR Tokens, will be dealt with in accordance with, and governed by, the Staking Terms and Disclaimers.
3.2	You acknowledge and agree that nothing in this Agreement, the Powerledger Node Software, Powerledger Blockchain or POWR Bridge imposes any obligation on Powerledger to provide any Rewards or continue the operation of the Powerledger Blockchain or the POWR Bridge, or constitutes an offer or invitation to subscribe for any tokens, securities or financial products.
3.3	Staking is not available and Rewards are not available to be accrued or redeemed or exchanged for POWR Tokens in any jurisdiction where it would contravene any Law, or would require Powerledger to comply with any regulatory requirements specific to activities like Staking and dealing in crypto currencies.

4	Limitation of liability and disclaimers 
4.1	You represent and warrant that:
(a)	you have sufficient technical knowledge and expertise to operate the Node and the Powerledger Node Software and understand the operation of the Powerledger Blockchain and the POWR Bridge;
(b)	you have relied on your own review of the Documentation in making a decision to operate a Node and the Powerledger Node Software and/or Stake POWR Tokens;
(c)	you have not relied on any representations by Powerledger; and
(d)	you understand the risks involved in dealing with cryptocurrencies, including their volatility.
4.2	To the maximum extent permitted by Law, Powerledger expressly disclaims any liability, and you unconditionally and irrevocably release Powerledger from any Loss (including Consequential Loss) you may incur, resulting from or in connection with the use of the Powerledger Node Software, operating the Node, providing the Validator Services or Staking.    
4.3	To the maximum extent permitted by Law, and subject to clause 4.4, in no event will the aggregate liability of Powerledger for any Loss, direct or otherwise, exceed an amount of A$5,000, regardless of the cause or form of action, whether from breach of contract, tort (including negligence) or under any other theory of liability. 
4.4	To the maximum extent permitted by Law, under no circumstances will Powerledger be liable for any Consequential Loss.
4.5	The Powerledger Node Software, the POWR Bridge and all other Documentation are provided "as is", and, to the maximum extent permitted by Law, any terms, warranties and representations of any kind in relation to the Powerledger Node Software, the POWR Bridge, the Documentation, Staking and Rewards or otherwise in connection with this Agreement, including any warranty or non-infringement, title, fitness for a particular purpose, functionality or merchantability, whether express, implied or statutory or at law, are expressly excluded. 
4.6	To the extent permitted by Law, Powerledger does not make any representation, warranty or guarantee as to the reliability, timeliness, quality, suitability, availability, accuracy or completeness, or any content contained in or generated by, the Powerledger Node Software or the POWR Bridge or that: 
(a)	the use of the Powerledger Node Software or the POWR Bridge will be secure, timely, uninterrupted or error-free or free from vulnerabilities; 
(b)	the Powerledger Node Software or the POWR Bridge will operate in combination with any other hardware, software or platform; 
(c)	the Powerledger Node Software or the POWR Bridge will meet your requirements or expectations; or
(d)	the Powerledger Node Software or the POWR Bridge are free of viruses or other harmful components.
4.7	Nothing in this Agreement requires Powerledger to fix any bugs or errors in the Powerledger Node Software or the POWR Bridge, or to provide any updates in relation to the same.
4.8	Powerledger shall not be liable for delays, interruptions, service failures and other problems inherent in use of the internet and electronic communications or other platforms (including the Ethereum blockchain or the Powerledger Blockchain).
4.9	You shall indemnify Powerledger and its Related Bodies Corporate and Personnel (Powerledger Indemnified Parties) from and against any Loss suffered or incurred by the Powerledger Indemnified Parties arising out of or in connection with:
(a)	any breach by you or your Personnel of this Agreement;
(b)	the use of the Powerledger Node Software, the POWR Bridge and any Documentation by you or your Personnel; 
(c)	any claims by any persons who Stake POWR Tokens to your Node; and
(d)	any Loss arising out of or otherwise in connection with any wrongful act or omission by you or your Personnel.

5	Intellectual property ownership 
5.1	You acknowledge that Powerledger owns all IP Rights in the Powerledger Node Software, Staking Portal, POWR Bridge, the Documentation, and any data recorded on the Powerledger Blockchain, and that nothing in this Agreement transfer ownership of any IP Rights of Powerledger to you or any third party.
5.2	You must notify Powerledger immediately if you become aware of any unauthorised access to or use of the Powerledger Node Software or your Node or any other suspicious activity involving your Node.
5.3	If any claim is made by a third party that the use of the Powerledger Node Software or POWR Bridge is an infringement of the IP Rights of any third person (IP Claim), Powerledger may (at its discretion): 
(a)	replace or modify the Powerledger Node Software to remove any infringing (or allegedly infringing) component; or
(b)	immediately terminate the availability of the Powerledger Node Software and you must immediately cease using the Powerledger Node Software.
5.4	All IP Rights created, discovered or coming to existence in respect of the Powerledger Node Software, Powerledger Blockchain and POWR Bridge as a result of, for the purpose of, or in connection with the performance of this Agreement will be owned by Powerledger and you irrevocably and unconditionally assign all such IP Rights to Powerledger on creation. 

6	Confidential Information 
6.1	You must:
(a)	keep confidential all Confidential Information; 
(b)	only use Confidential Information solely for the purposes of exercising your rights and performing your obligations under this Agreement and for the Approved Purpose;
(c)	only disclose Confidential Information:
(i)	to your Personnel who have a need to know and who are subject to obligations to maintain confidentiality no less stringent than this clause;  
(ii)	to persons, other than those referred to in clause 6.1(c)(i) with the consent of Powerledger and only if the person to whom information is being disclosed has entered into a confidentiality agreement in favour of, and directly enforceable by, Powerledger on substantially similar (but no less stringent) than the confidentiality requirements specified in this clause6; 
(iii)	as required by Law, or recognised stock exchange regulation; 
(d)	take reasonable steps to ensure that your Personnel do not make public or disclose any Confidential Information. 
(e)	You are not required to maintain confidentiality in relation to Confidential Information if: 
(i)	the Confidential Information becomes public knowledge during the course of this Agreement; or
(ii)	you become aware of the Confidential Information from a third person who is not in breach of any obligations of confidentiality. 
6.2	You must not, and ensure that your Personnel do not, make any public statements about your use of the Powerledger Node Software and your provision of the Validator Services under this Agreement.  

7	Privacy
7.1	You must comply with any Privacy Law by which you are bound in relation to any Personal Information you may handle, process or otherwise receive during your provision of the Validator Services or by Staking. 
7.2	You must comply with any reasonable request from Powerledger in relation to compliance with Privacy Laws in respect of any data recorded on the Powerledger Blockchain including, but not limited to, entering into data protection and processing requirements for the purposes of such Privacy Laws (such as GDPR). 

8	Termination
8.1	Powerledger may suspend and/or terminate your access to the Powerledger Blockchain and/or terminate this Agreement:
(a)	immediately, if it no longer requires the Validator Services from you or at all;
(b)	Powerledger determines in its absolute discretion that your Node operates below the acceptable performance level (skip rate and uptime, not using the correct version of the Powerledger Node Software) and you fail to remedy it by the commencement of the epoch immediately following the epoch in which Powerledger gives you notice. 
(c)	if Powerledger determines in its absolute discretion that the performance of your Node poses a threat to the security or integrity of the Powerledger Blockchain;
(d)	you breach any provision of this Agreement;
(e)	it becomes unlawful to operate a Node, operate the Powerledger Blockchain, Staking or dealing with cryptocurrencies in the jurisdiction where you or Powerledger are located (including where additional regulatory requirements are imposed on Powerledger by any governmental agency, government, judicial entity or authority and any self-regulatory organisation established under any Law, in respect of operating the Node, the Powerledger Blockchain, Staking or dealing with cryptocurrencies).
8.2	In the event of any unexpected outputs or events occurring on the Powerledger Blockchain or the POWR Bridge (including bugs, errors or malicious activity), Powerledger reserves the right to suspend the Powerledger Blockchain, including the operation of the POWR Bridge, and implement other such measures as it deems appropriate in its absolute discretion.
8.3	If this Agreement is terminated or expires, you must immediately stop using the Powerledger Node Software, delete all Powerledger Blockchain data from your Node and destroy or return any Confidential Information to Powerledger. 
8.4	Where you commit fraud or a material breach of this Agreement, Powerledger may, in its absolute discretion, implement measures to withhold any Rewards in respect of your Node.  
8.5	If you wish to cease providing the Validator Services, you must provide Powerledger with 30 days written notice. During the notice period, you must continue to provide the Validator Services unless otherwise advised by Powerledger. 
8.6	Clauses 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8.3 and this clause 8.6 survive termination or expiry of this agreement.

9	General
9.1	If Powerledger is partially or wholly precluded from complying with its obligations under this Agreement by a Force Majeure Event that is beyond its reasonable control, then Powerledger's obligation to perform will be suspended for the duration of the delay arising out of the Force Majeure Event. 
9.2	Except where expressly stated otherwise, any express statement of a right of a party under this Agreement is without prejudice to any other rights of that party expressly stated in this Agreement or existing at law.
9.3	Nothing in this Agreement gives a party any right to bind the other party in contract or otherwise at law, or hold itself out as a representative of the other party.
9.4	You agree to comply with your obligations under this Agreement in consideration of receiving access to the Powerledger Node Software and Powerledger whitelisting your Node to provide the Validator Services.  
9.5	This Agreement contains the entire agreement between the parties with respect to its subject matter and supersedes any oral or written prior agreement, representation or understanding.
9.6	No delay, neglect or forbearance on the part of any party in enforcing against any other party any obligation will operate as a waiver or in any way prejudice any right.
9.7	If any provision of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the Agreement will continue otherwise in full force and effect apart from such provision which will be taken to be deleted.
9.8	This Agreement is governed by the laws of Western Australia. In relation to it and related non-contractual matters each party irrevocably submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts with jurisdiction there and waives any right to object to the venue on any ground. 
9.9	Powerledger may amend this Agreement, the Powerledger Node Software, the Powerledger Blockchain code, the POWR Bridge code or the Documentation at any time by notice to you or by making them publicly available.  The changes apply from the second epoch immediately following the epoch in which the notice was given, unless stated otherwise.  If you continue to use the Powerledger Node Software, your usage constitutes acceptance of the changes.
9.10	Any Rewards or payments to be provided or made under or in connection with this Agreement are inclusive of Indirect Tax in any jurisdiction.  
9.11	If any amount is required, under any Law or by any public authority, to be withheld (withholding amount) from the Rewards or otherwise payable to you under this Agreement and paid to a public authority, the payment by Powerledger of the withholding amount will constitute full discharge of Powerledger’s obligation to pay that amount or provide the Rewards to the extent of the withholding amount.

10	Definitions
Confidential Information means this Agreement and all confidential data and information, including trade secrets and confidential know how, as well as business, technical and financial information, related to Powerledger, its suppliers, customers or Related Bodies Corporate as identified to you from time to time. Specifically, Powerledger’s Confidential Information includes the design, specification and content of the Powerledger Node Software including its code, source code, mainnet conduction, cluster status and metrics and the Powerledger Blockchain, Powerledger’s Personnel information, operational and other policies, project documentation, proposals, or other development documentation including any specifications, or business strategies and Documentation. 
Consequential Loss means any loss of profits, loss of income or revenue, loss of data, loss of or damage to reputation, loss of or damage to goodwill, loss of business opportunities (including opportunities to enter into or complete arrangements with third parties), loss of management time, damage to credit rating, or loss of business; and any loss, not arising naturally (that is according to the usual course of things), from the relevant breach, whether or not such loss is reasonably supposed to have been in the contemplation of both parties, at the time they made the agreement, as the probable result of the relevant breach.
Documentation means the reference manual, user instructions, technical literature and all other related materials supplied to you in any format by Powerledger for aiding the implementation, use and application of the Powerledger Node Software, including the Powerledger Node Software, the POWR Bridge, and the POWR Bridge source code.
Force Majeure Event affecting a party means a circumstance beyond the reasonable control of that party causing that party to be unable to observe or perform on time an obligation under the Service Agreement, including acts of God, lightning strikes, earthquakes, floods, storms, explosions, fires and any natural disaster, acts of public enemies, terrorism, riots, civil commotion, malicious damage, sabotage, revolution and acts of war and war, general strikes (other than of its own staff), embargo, or power, water and other utility shortage.
Indirect Tax means any goods and services tax, consumption tax, value added tax or any tax of a similar nature.
IP Rights means any intellectual property rights conferred by statute, common law or in equity relating to and including all trademarks, current registered and unregistered rights in respect of copyright, designs, circuit layouts, know-how, confidential information, patents, inventions and discoveries and all other intellectual property as defined in article 2 of the convention establishing the World Intellectual Property Organisation 1967 - as amended from time to time.
Laws means all applicable laws including rules of common law, principles of equity, statutes, regulations, proclamations, ordinances, by laws, rules, regulatory principles, requirements and determinations, mandatory codes of conduct and standards, writs, orders, injunctions and judgments. 
Loss means any claim, loss, liability, cost or expense (including legal expenses on a full indemnity basis).
Node means an instance of Powerledger Node Software operating on compatible hardware or cloud computing service that is connected to the internet and connected to the Powerledger Blockchain.
Personal Information means information or an opinion (including information or an opinion forming part of a database), whether true or not, and whether recorded in a material form or not, about an individual whose identity is apparent, or can reasonably be ascertained, from such information or opinion.
Personnel means in respect of a person any director, officer, employee, contractor, servant, agent, or other person under the person's direct or indirect control and includes any sub-contractors.
Powerledger Blockchain means the blockchain developed by Powerledger that is created and operated using the Powerledger Node Software. 
Powerledger Node Software means the source code and/or the program in object code provided by Powerledger for the purposes of creating and operating the Powerledger Blockchain as provided by Powerledger to you.
POWR Bridge means the smart contract nominated by Powerledger to exchange the native tokens on the Powerledger Blockchain for POWR Tokens and vice versa.
POWR Token means an ERC20 token on the Ethereum blockchain known as “POWR”.
Privacy Law means all legislation, principles, industry codes and policies, as amended or replaced from time to time, in the jurisdiction where the relevant Personal Information is collected which relate to the collection, use, disclosure, storage or granting of access rights to Personal Information.
Related Body Corporate has the meaning of a 'related body corporate' as that term is defined in the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth).
Rewards means the native tokens generated on the Powerledger Blockchain as inflation and allocated to the validator nodes in accordance with the Powerledger Blockchain source code. 
RPC Node means a remote procedure call node used for remote interaction with the blockchain system.
Staking means the process of staking POWR Tokens via the POWR Bridge to a node connected to the Powerledger Blockchain.
Staking Portal means the Powerledger website and other tools provided by Powerledger that may facilitate your interaction with the Powerledger Blockchain and Staking of POWR Tokens. 
Staking Terms and Disclaimers means the terms and disclaimers applicable to the Staking as made available by Powerledger.
Validator Services mean establishing and operating a Node using the Powerledger Node Software for the purposes of validating transactions on the Powerledger Blockchain.
